what's going on YouTube today I want to
do a quick video on the Jets on the CV
550 that I'm really building so Jets of
course are in the carburetor you got the
main jet and the pilot jet the pilot is
also known as a slow jet but the main
jet basically controlled the fuel and
air going into the motorcycle at
throttle position of about quarter to
full throttle and the pilot or also
known as the idle jet basically controls
the field going into the engine at idle
speeds obviously and reasons why you
need to replace the Jets in the vehicle
or in your CB 550 is because if you make
any kind of exhaust modifications or the
intake modifications it's going to mess
up the air fuel ratio going into the
motorcycle engine so depending on the
exhaust setup it's going to change the
exhaust air back pressure and depending
on the intake setup you're going to have
more flow let's fro and that's going to
mess up the how the fuel is burning
inside engine so it is very critical
that you're making any kind of changes
to the exhaust or intake that you reject
your motorcycle so first things first
here is the cooperator of the CB 550
when you take it off it looks like this
with the little cover on top this cover
is held on by four bolts one two three
four you just remove that with Philips
and inside you will see something like
this in one second I already took
everything apart and I'm just pop it
back in here
yeah it's it's not exactly how it came
out but basically you get the idea
there's a little clip up top and you
basically you move that clip and inside
here is the main jet this is the jet
that console controls the fuel going to
the engine a wide-open throttle so
that's the one jet that you need to
replace and slow jet or pilot jet is
this jet on the right side here and it
is simply screwed in so you just grab a
screwdriver and unscrew this guy so
those are the two jets that needs to be
replaced and I did a lot of research
online trying to figure out what size
Jets I need so there's a list created by
a guy called Denny Zander thanks to
Danny we can kind of estimate screen
saver thanks to Danny we can kind of
estimate what size jet you need to get
for your CB 550 or any kind of
motorcycle for that matter with
carburetors so let me just show you how
to use this chart in my case I have a 41
exhaust so what you want to do is go
down the list and figure out your setup
I have 420 sauce here so basically it's
telling me to increase two jet sizes 441
exhaust and it's also telling me to
increase two jet sizes for individual
filters by individual filters what it
means is the part filters that I'm going
to be installing here it's just the
cone-shaped filters that basically sits
on individual inlet so I got three four
four two one and two four individual
part filters what you want to do let's
add these two up and subtract one and I
guess three so and it increased three
sizes for the main jet as far as the
pilot jet goes it tells you that one
pilot jet size increase for every three
main jet size increase so I need to
increase my pilot jet sides by one main
jet size by three now moving on to here
this is a website called jet saw us
they give you all these jets for your
cooperated bike needs on here I'm on the
CB 550 section this is a 1975 seat 550
and you can basically figure out what
size jets you need I'm just older them
so the stock jet size so the CB 550 for
the pilot side is 38
so as the Danny told me online I need to
increase one side so I'm going to go
with the size 40
40 and on the main jet CB 550 is stuck
just as 100 so I'm going to increase by
suicide this and go with 115 and I'm
going to add that the card and I have
150 and 40 and the reason why I have 115
in here as well as the 120 is because
even though this guide is pretty
accurate it is not going to get the jet
size 100% accurate for your motorcycle
every motorcycle is a little different
every exhaust is going to be a little
different depending on your altitude or
where you live of course it's gonna the
system is going to be pressurized a
little differently so it's going to pull
different amount of fuel into the
motorcycle so it is recommended that you
buy a bunch of different size jets so
that you can play around swap them in
and out and check the spark plugs after
you ride the bike each time to make sure
that the jet size that you have on the
bike is in fact what you're looking for
so I'm gonna order these up online from
jet as calm and once I receive it I'm
gonna be installing the Jets in the
carburetor which is super simple it just
just screws into the bike and hopefully
I'll be putting the carburetor back on a
bike soon so that's it for the corpse I
know there was a lot of information as a
first-time builder or first-time
rejecting a carburetor there was a lot
of research that I had to do online and
I hope this video kinda helps you out as
far as wait find it yet how to find you
recommended jet sizing and so on so
thanks again for watching the video deep
comments questions below as has needed
and I'll try to respond to my knowledge
so thanks again and I'll see you in my
next build video see you